Refactor nodes section (#62)
vechain/vechain-docs: how-to-run-a-node/nodes.md

Reviewer: Suggestion to rephrase the opening sentence in the Overview section from "In the previous chapters, we described some scenarios in which for a dapp can be convenient to use a local node or a public node." to be "In previous chapters, we discussed some scenarios where it can be convenient for a dapp to use a local or public node."

description: RESTful API to access the VeChainThor blockchain
---

# VeChainThor Nodes: Your Gateway to Blockchain Interaction

## Overview

> VeChain nodes serve as the critical access points to the VeChainThor blockchain, employing a RESTful API communication approach known as the Thorest API. This modern interface facilitates seamless interaction with the blockchain, enabling developers and users to harness its full potential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous chapters, we described some scenarios in which for a dapp can be convenient to use a local node or a public node. Regardless of the choice, the interface for interacting with VeChainThor blockchain are the RESTful APIs specifically designed known as the Thorest API. This modern interface facilitates seamless interaction with the blockchain, enabling developers and users to harness its full potential.
```

## Thorest API: Powering Blockchain Communication

The Thorest API stands as the primary communication channel for the VeChainThor blockchain. It offers a comprehensive set of endpoints that allow for diverse interactions, from querying blockchain data to submitting transactions.

For the latest information of each of the available endpoints please use the following link [Thorest API Repo](https://github.com/vechain/thor/blob/16c5d34cfea8262e9fe91bd33b298c8e2f81da21/api/doc/thor.yaml).

## Monitoring Node Health

> To ensure optimal performance and reliability, VeChain Energy offers a dedicated status page for node health monitoring. Check it at [https://nodes.status.vechain.energy/](https://nodes.status.vechain.energy/).

Reviewer 3: There is also our own status page if you are interested. 
https://status.vechain.org

Filters:
https://mainnet.status.vechain.org
https://testnet.status.vechain.org

Author: Added, thanks!

## Testnet Node

> <table><thead><tr><th width="280">Provider</th><th>Link</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="https://testnet.vecha.in/">testnet.vecha.in</a></td></tr><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="https://sync-testnet.vechain.org/">sync-testnet.vechain.org</a></td></tr><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="hHttps://vethor-node-test.vechaindev.com/">vethor-node-test.vechaindev.com</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet.veblocks.net/">testnet.veblocks.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet02.vechain.de.blockorder.net/">testnet02.vechain.de.blockorder.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet02.vechain.fi.blockorder.net/">testnet02.vechain.fi.blockorder.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>SafeTech</td><td><a href="https://testnetc1.vechain.network/">testnetc1.vechain.network</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

Reviewer 2: typo 

```suggestion
<table><thead><tr><th width="280">Provider</th><th>Link</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="https://testnet.vecha.in/">testnet.vecha.in</a></td></tr><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="https://sync-testnet.vechain.org/">sync-testnet.vechain.org</a></td></tr><tr><td>VeChain</td><td><a href="https://vethor-node-test.vechaindev.com/">vethor-node-test.vechaindev.com</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet.veblocks.net/">testnet.veblocks.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet02.vechain.de.blockorder.net/">testnet02.vechain.de.blockorder.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>Veblocks</td><td><a href="https://testnet02.vechain.fi.blockorder.net/">testnet02.vechain.fi.blockorder.net</a></td></tr><tr><td>SafeTech</td><td><a href="https://testnetc1.vechain.network/">testnetc1.vechain.network</a></td></tr></tbody></table>
```
